## OG data management task team Meeting notes ##
16th of June 2023

# Agenda:
* Summary on progress
* Renewing of the membership,
* Chairing
* Plans for the next years.

# Attendees:
Emma Gardner, Justin Buck, Jennifer Sevadjian, Guilherme Castelao, Victor Turpin


# Summary on progress
OceanGliders steering team requested the Data management task team to report on progress, membership and plan. 
One - two pages reports no more. This report is available [here](https://github.com/OceanGlidersCommunity/meeting_notes/blob/main/2023/OGCalForTaskTeamReviewJune2023.md).
Main message will be:
* OG1.0 and BUFR worked pretty ok.
* RTQC and DMQC never progress.


# Renewing membership
Dan Hayes (CSCS, chair), Victor Turpin (OceanOPS, chair), Jennifer Sevadjian (SIO), Justin Buck (BODC), Juan Gabriel Fernandez (SOCIB), John Kerfoot (US IOOS), Guilherme Castelao (SIO), Emma Gardner (BODC), Thierry Carval (IFREMER), Callum Rollo (VOTO), Miguel Charcos Llorens (SOCIB), Mun Woo (ANFOG, IMOS), Kevin Oâ€™Brien (NOAA), Mark Hebden (BODC), Corentin Guyot (IFREMER), Benedicte Pasqueir (IMOS).

Initially, at the launch of OceanGliders Data Management Task Team, we had a large group of people interested (this group can be find on the slack channel), distributed in some sub-groups (RTQC,DMQC, OG1.0, BUFR). 

We will organize a call to renew membership in September in order to set up a new DM TT late 2023.

We suggest also the re-organization around working groups to progress on several topics. The identified topics are:
* Vocabs
* OG format 1.X
* Format checker
* Evolution of the data system
* Metadata broker
* WIS2.0
* NRT QC
* DM QC

# Change in the chairing of the TT
Dan Hayes and Victor Turpin chaired the OG DM TT since 2017. Both have expressed their will to step back.

There will be a call for chairing along with the call for new members.
Co-chairing is suggested at this stage.
Emma Gardner is considering the role at this stage.

## Plans for the next years
Priority for the next 12 month are:
* Communication around OG1.0
* Communication around BUFR
* Review of exiting procedure around Delayed mode quality control.
* New team, new chair, new ToR, new work plan

Any other initiative is more than welcome (e.g. metadata brokering discussion).

## Future OGDMTT work plan
Emma and Justin worked proactively on what could be the work plan for the OGDMTT for the next years. This draft is available here: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I5w8OyhP7SsdIyWFmjDlJOE8cCWBQN6TC2iYPf6Bdb8/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I5w8OyhP7SsdIyWFmjDlJOE8cCWBQN6TC2iYPf6Bdb8/edit?usp=sharing) and available for comments and suggestions.

