 Welcome to the “Real Time Quality Control” room.

Co-leads: G. Castelao, M. Bushnell

## Agenda
May 12 Wednesday 
	15:00 - 16:00 CEST / 6:00 - 7:00 PDT / 21:00 - 22:00 AWST
Real Time Quality Control: Assign people to paragraphs (G. Castelao, M. Bushnell)


## Participants: 
Gui C., Chenyi Luo, Alice Pietri, Mun Woo, Laura Nazzaro, Pierre Testor, Victor Turpin, Christoph Waldmann, Lori Garzio, Thierry Carval, Matteo Marasco, Nikolaos Zarokanelllos, John Kerfoot, Justin Buck, Ali Aydogdu, JongJin Park, Minji Park, Yoon-Chang Gwak, Mark Bushnell, Yumi Song

## Meetings notes:

discussion on what the pilots can do and what not, should get informed if something goes really wrong and direct to other people / manual checks
Mun Woo: version 3 of DMQC manual includes metadata file formats etc
John Kerfoot: Quartod manual, not specific for gliders
Christoph Waldmann: GoShip, Action: Christoph is willing to dig into the details in the GoShip manuals
Nikolaos: automatic plots, but PI is needed to know what he/she is looking for to make decisions i.e. turn off the O2 sensor, gives examples for SOCIB, 
Gui: give easy access to people who are not piloting but have to make decisions. i.e. PI’s
Gui: GitHub to spread tools, key is to validate them, example datasets to test tools whether they are expecting results
Alvaro suggests: Unit testing for QC
John Kerfoot: 
Gui: one sample dataset is important be brought up by the community, gives example XBT cookbook
Nikolaos: what about parameters
Gui suggests TS, Chla, Backscatter, Oxygen
Nikos: Learn for the backscatter and chl for the bio-argo
Justin: points out that it is important to know who is using the data and what kind of quality is needed, what kind of tests are needed, gaps
Gui: Why do you do near-real time? This will lead to priorities
Ali: Is leading the task in the EuroSea project, assimilates real time glider data etc, wants to understand OceanGliders community, have own QC, What are the best way to assimilate glider data, which is quite high resolution, would be glad to get some direction from us. 
Gui: would like to get input from Ali, what are your questions, your need, etc to build a questionnaire for other users
Ali: refers to many studies in the past on assimilation glider data, to him the major challenge how to integrate these observations into the forecasting systems
Nikolaos: what is the minimum of we have to provide to the modellers 
John: US perspective, their primary goals, QC flags,
Justin: refers to templates, data formats 

Gui raises the point: priority on false positives or false negatives? depends on user!


Thierry Carval to Everyone (3:48 PM)
Real-time glider data are aggregated as vertical profiles by CMEMS in situ TAC and used by Copernicus models

Survey: What would you like to see in this document?
Gui: priority on false positives or false negatives + Nikos

Justin Buck - end users and data use cases we are targeting (this is the basis for the development of QC thay meets users needs) +Christoph

Justin Buck - key issues on glider data that need to be identified by RTQC, gliders have their own characteristics, foibles and fundamental differences with other platform types so tests need some platform specificity +Gui+Luo

Justin Buck - How to share RTQC tools once they are developed, how to make sharing and adoption of code as easy a possible +Gui +Kerfoot +Christoph +Thierry

Justin Buck - How to document the RTQC that has been applied - version of tests and approaches + Kerfoot  + Turpin + Thierry

Soeren Thomsen: what can be done automatically and where is an expert needed +Gui +Kerfoot + Luo +Justin+Pierre

Victor Turpin : What information (metadata, intermediate parameter, calibration coefficient) is needed to compute RTQC (for oxygen and chla at least) +Thierry +Pierre but we might consider to move this part in the data management chapter.

Justin BUck - secondary question to the previous one, what QC dependencies are there on PSAL and TEMP to underpin RTQC of DOXY? i.e. document the QC dependencies by variable (id physics data are bad then DOXY QC may not be possible).

Christoph: Characteristics of the glider platform that will influence the sensor behaviour or what is the difference to ARGO RTQC? +Luo
To what degree are the QARTOD manuals already covering the topics that we intend to discuss here? +Gui +Luo 
Seven Data Management Laws, definition of terms and Certification
Quantification of measurement uncertainty derived in real-time +Soeren+ Justin

Nikos: 1) What kind of visualizations plots are necessary to detect issues in NRQT (per parameter)? +Kerfoot +Gui +Justin +Christoph +Luo
2) The glider labs use different approaches to transmit real-time data, depending on the surface time, satellite cost, platform type, and potential risks. How do these differences in the real-time data transmission affect the NRQC? +Kerfoot +Luo
3) What are the potential risks of the decimate observations, and how these affect NRQC, modelers, and the needs of society? +Kerfoot
4) Inter-comparison between opportunistic ships in the region or floats during the mission add value in the near real-time observations? Help us to make decisions during the mission?
5) Automatic RTQC and real time RTQC. What are the limitations and main differences?
6) Minimum RTQC needed (per parameter) to ensure that what we observe is on high quality standards (Example from our discussion this morning in the oxygen session - Can we have RTQC in oxygen data - seems to much can be done in DT but not in RT)
7) What parameters we are going to include?

Pierre Testor: describe the different RTQC systems and discuss differences and possible converging evolutions. + Soeren, +Gui +Kerfoot +Christoph+ Nikos + Luo + Victor
should take advantage of argo/oceansites, quartod, ego manual, etc
Mun Woo share a link to their most recent QC
GO-SHIP have a QC manual, is this RTQC or human QC? (Christoph to follow up on this)
Need to considers NRT algorithm such as thermal lag,




Pierre: At some point we would have to discuss what are the variables that are ‘OceanGliders’. Difficult question. For the moment, in the GOOS network specification sheet we have T, S, O2 and currents (broad definition can include. turbulence, not relevant in RTQC yet). Might be better discussed in the data management chapter?

Thierry Carval : how to handle reliable deployment & calibration information (link between glider operator and data centre + Soeren +Kerfoot +Christoph

Matteo: definition of RTQC, future vision. + Soeren + Nikos


Alvaro: How do we connect the RTQC with operations if the science team and piloting team are separated? Is that for the piloting session?

Chat: 
Me to Everyone (3:06 PM)
We are all here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EqNFKQeoEueE-fHbCfJ_41iv2sxZKXp_ZGg7SvMqNck/edit?pli=1
Alvaro Lorenzo Lopez to Everyone (3:22 PM)
Similar at NOC. Piloting team is different than datacenter and different that science team
Nikolaos Zarokanellos to Everyone (3:22 PM)
Similar in SOCIB too!
Me to Everyone (3:26 PM)
feel free to help with the notes!
Nikolaos Zarokanellos to Everyone (3:28 PM)
Here is from IMOS: http://content.aodn.org.au/Documents/IMOS/Facilities/Ocean_glider/Delayed_Mode_QAQC_Best_Practice_Manual_OceanGliders_LATEST.pdf
Is the right Mun WOO?
Justin B to Everyone (3:28 PM)
I think there is a precursor to this question, and that is to list the user cases and end users we are doing the RTQC for to make sure we meet their needs
John Kerfoot to Everyone (3:29 PM)
https://ioos.noaa.gov/project/qartod/
Mun Woo to Everyone (3:29 PM)
This is the latest IMOS document http://content.aodn.org.au/Documents/IMOS/Facilities/Ocean_glider/Delayed_Mode_QAQC_Best_Practice_Manual_OceanGliders_LATEST.pdf
John Kerfoot to Everyone (3:29 PM)
Link above to all IOOS/QARTOD QC manuals. Most not glider specific
Justin B to Everyone (3:31 PM)
GO-SHIP is climate grade versus RTQC which tends to be for operational users

@Thierry Thanks. I know that CMEMS repo is not always well synchronised with the repo of the glider operators.

Thierry Carval to Everyone (3:56 PM)
@Ali, that is true, extracting vertical profiles from gliders is not always trivial; the situation improves.
Ali Aydogdu to Everyone (3:58 PM)
@Thierry, agree. Thanks














