Welcome to the “Delayed Mode Quality Control” room.

Co-leads: Soeren Thomsen, Pierre Testor, Matthew Palmer

## Agenda
May 14 Friday 
	16:00 - 17:30 CEST / 7:00 - 8:30 PDT / 22:00 - 23:30 AWST
Delayed Mode Quality Control: Review DMQC chapter (S. Thomsen, P. Testor, M. Palmer)


## Participants: 
Callum Rollo, Soeren Thomsen, Pierre Testor, Ilker Fer, JongJin Park, Minji Park, Mathieu Gentil, Isabelle Giddy, Sandy Tomalla, Catherine Schmechtig, Donglai Gong, Tom Hull, Johannes Hahn, Filipa Carvalho, Patricia LG, John Allen, Eva Alou Gui Castelao, Ilker Fer, Nikolaos Zarokanellos, Yumi Song, Nicolai von Oppeln-Bronikowski

=> Please help the leads here with taking notes collectively 
=> please avoid comments in the ZOOM chat 
=> instead make comments/notes directly here. 
=> like this we just have one text channel beside the voice channel

Callum Rollo will take notes, help appreciated!

Meetings notes: 

Chapter 5 document in the following link: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YiJ3XErYtlj0f04lrsbKgffDX0-Fvkjmlg-15AP62vg/edit?ts=600aac14# (please don’t add more comments during the session) but raise points below here or oral.


Pierre: chapter looking good. Want to align better though, please voice concerns. Chapter too long atm.

Soreren: aim is to describe main points, refer to key papers and leave details to the SOPs. Be concise.

Matthew: section leads to comment on scope.

Pierre: concern with overlap with deployment/operations on practice of how to fly glider for good calibration.

Donglai: What to do with practices not yet perfected? How to phrase?

Pierre: include them! Get them adopted. Any practice is relevant

Soeren: for specific parameters we want some detail. One sentence “you must do this” valuable if crucial e.g. 1, 0, 100 calibration for oxygen

Matthew: not always possible to reach the gold standard. Be sensible and address, especially with emerging parameters. Important to capture now, evolve later.

Soeren: is it possible to merge particles and particulate matter?

Matthew: lessons to be learned from the oxygen section?

Tom: oxygen section excessively detailed. Can halve the length. Electrodes and optodes are fundamentally different, and deserve separate sections.

Donglai: Add a PAR section? Sure

Matthew: Sections are made because someone volunteered. If willing, we take all offers. Turbulence is back on the menu. Tricky to fit in the right place

Ilker: inserted my name in the turbulence section. I would be happy to contribute. Please coordinate.

Soeren: Where does PAR go? Try to focus on variables, not instruments

Tom: Keep PAR in physics...or drop the top level headings altogether if we can’t agree

Filipa: Suggest “optical sensors” heading for grouping

Sandy: PAR is biogeochemical. It sits with backscatter etc. Volunteers to take a first pass at a PAR section

Pierre: Some of these are defined by GOOS, probably including PAR https://www.goosocean.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=14&Itemid=114

Soeren: Look at and use the skill map! Can then find all the PAR people not on this call

Filipa: More radiometry expertise needed. Now have 4 wavelengths radiometeres. PAR sensors from biospherical inst has stopped calibrating sensors? Tricky to process, sensors present on gliders

Catherine: Will help with PAR, has BGC argo expertise, not glider (NITRATE, pH, DOXY, CHLA)

Donglai: Issue with relation to data management. Real time data taken and used, unclear if delayed mode is needed. What to do with it? Who is the end user, besides you?

Pierre: Reanalysis people like it. They are reluctant to use it bc it’s too difficult, not harmonised. Good for climatologies, we want people to feel secure using it

Sandy: One objective is to generate future users. This will create capacity for wider use. We will make a user base by implementing these practices.

Johannes: Paper recently in discussion by Gerd: https://essd.copernicus.org/preprints/essd-2020-308/#discussion
(discussion preprint paper is actually withdrawn)  
Pierre: For datacenters to invest, need to be confident it is cross platform

Sandy: Does every question get a SOP: This is a lot of work. If there is no SOP to point to, we need detail in this document

Soeren: SOP can be very fast! It should develop at the same time. If not possible, can make it a bit more lengthy. This meeting should spark SOPs

Matthew: Don’t want to be too prescriptive. Invite discussion and community organization.

Pierre: Not enough to just refer to papers, should concisely describe the method. Should be avoided where possible, prefer SOPs. Best way to shorten a chapter.

Donglai: Idead, table with parameters, papers discussing difficulties, standard error bars. Make a nice concise summary of what is the current best so people can see where improvements are to be made. Conditional statements around it, still good to get accessible numbers. 

Need to be careful when we are taking non-glider specific data and are extrapolating. Make it clear when is direct glider experience

Patricia: Lots of info at the moment (if we need to delete something , maybe remove the calibration part as it’s very well described in the SOP?).  

Soeren: Not an exhaustive list in this paper, just stuff you need to consider

Johannes: Would an overview table as a checklist would help newcomers to consider the most important points? 

Pierre: It must be short. Important thing is for a newcomer to know what they need going in to data collection/.equipment purchase. Still one of the longest chapters. Value to a lit review on topic

Sandy: Aim should be a heads-up for info you need before the sensor hits the water. If we cut detail, have to point to where it is, or miss part of the picture. +1 (Gui)

Soeren: Good to summarise what cited papers do to move field forward.

Donglai: salinity section. Procedure for Seabird pumped, unpumped and RBR have similar principles. Should we guide people on sensor specific things? 

Tom: If there are different opinions and no consensus, write both.

Matthew: good reasons to use unpumped still (microstucture)

Soeren: Volunteers to coordinate a salinity SOP with Donglai Gong + ?please add your name if you want to help here?? (I have some lab protocol for Sal calibration using salinometer and method of collecting samples, etc. we used it for sensor calibration and oceanography in general- Patricia LG) 
I (Lucas Merckelbach) am happy to contribute here too, in particular from the perspective of the coastal ocean region (shallow water, strong thermoclines).

Sandy: Reader needs to know what benefit they get from using an approach

John: Lots of issues here, if using unpumped CTD need a sophisticated method to fix this. If we want legacy value, cannot rely on manufacturer guarantees. Requirement for old-school calibration.

Tom: We’re missing pressure! Can’t assume that what comes out of a glider is good. It’s included under depth but v short right now.

Donglai: Where issues with Slocum timekeeping, can’t trust it for all measurements. Is this still an issue? Should be under the operations section. G1 issue only?

Tom: science and flight computer getting out of sync causes this. Still an issue with G2

Ilker: Should we have recommended flags?

Pierre: RTQC processing applies to DMQT too. We can say “do the same as real time except sections …” Include description of flags

Matthew: Data management is currently very real-time focused. We need to ensure that the data for delayed mode is getting through. Where is this issue split between this chapter and operations?

Pierre: Make oceanglider 1.0 format suitable for capturing all this data

Nikolaos: Always need to revisit the original data

Gui: In OG1 QC flags will follow a CF feature. Great for machine-machine. Tough for delayed mode. Need to capture this complexity. Transition from RT to DM should be when we recover the glider. RT and NRT should be just from telemetry. No consensus from the RT group as of yet. Should be able to update the QC flags.

Tom: The only thing you can’t do in real time is drift and biofouling. Everything else would fit under RT. Will we write our doc then compare with RT for duplication

Catherine: Delayed mode needs to focus on error estimation +1 Gabriel

Donglai: numerical modellers for RT and reanalysis. Should one assimilate delayed mode processed data? Or use reprocessed RT data. Do we want a say in this? Should delayed mode match RT point-for-point?

Gabriel: For Data Assimilation, the error estimation is a crucial parameter. Error estimation related with specific flags (for example, larger error estimates on not-performed thermal lag correction salinity) would be interesting.

Pierre: We need to agree on a time scale for DM data

Donglai: Might prefer an intermediate product

Gui: Make it clear that RT is best possible at the time, we should explicitly tell people to always prefer the DM product

Nikoloas: for some things, need to consider alongside glider preparation/sampling strategy. e.g need up and downcast for oxygen. +1 Matthew 

Gui Castelao to Everyone (5:13 PM)
It was discussed in the data management group the importance of a unique id for profiles/dives/chunk of data so that once we have a delayed mode it can propagate beyond the provider without risk of creating duplicates.

Matthew: discuss details of risks of battery saving with a lower sampling rate.

Johannes: error estimation similar to drift calculation. Both depend on pre and post calibration so should be part of DM. In RT, limited to automatic QC test, in DM can do manual tests. 

Lots of requests for standard flags and error estimates

Gui: There are many flag standards available RTQC team are working to compile a list of the flag methods. In delayed mode we can do manual flagging/QC. Use pilot experience to inform this.

Pierre: Importance of good log books for e.g. bottom impacts by glider

Donglai: Could use some recommendations for echosounders/bioacoustics. Not got much to go on for processing. Lots of demand for data. Acknowledge the need in this chapter. Donglai will contact people for this. Matthew says Sophie Fielding at BAS could help. Christian Reiss at NOAA.

Matthew: Do we need to acknowledge all the things that are going on? There’s a danger people will be upset if their stuff isn’t there.

Soeren: A long list should be top of SOPs, but we don’t want paper to explode in length.

JJ Park: It would be a good start to list up the variables for DMQC and persons who can contribute on the document. I can help with Salinity (based on ARGO DMQC experiences and Glider operation experiences) and Chl-a NPQ correction.  

Tom: do a paragraph on new sensors, if we have nothing left to say that’s fine.

Pierre: use this paper to guide the evolution of SOPs. Establishment of SOPs is the goal. What kind of figures do we want in this chapter?

Soeren: what parameter do you start with, what to build up to. Or, if you want variable x, you need sensors a, b, c

Donglai: Every section has a figure showing raw data and DMQC data with error bars. Soeren suggests leaving this figure for SOPs

Soeren: Donglai please write me an email so we can discuss the Salinity SOP ok? 

There is one I really like, very visual (it’s not mine- Patry), but you can see the perfect outset ;) so the problem is very clear


JJ Park: bias correction is one of important parts in DMQC. The figure above looks good. Is there any salinity example showing a significant bias?  

Matthew: best to refer to papers that already have figures. Little need for new ones. Try to get by without figures in this chapter.

Johannes: comment to soerens last comment: the overview about these parameters could go into an overview table / decision table / decision tree (this is not a figure, but at least a condensed overview about the most important points. → easier for a newcomer to use this as a checklist 

JJ Park: High frequency noise shown in Temperature and Salinity should be filtered out. 10 sec boxcar filtering usually works, but a global standard procedure for filtering better be suggested.  

Thank you Callum for taking notes !!!
